docs/dev-decisions.md, before:

# Dev Decisions and Research

## Exception Handing

- When using BigChem I want to always call `compute(..., raise_exc=True)` so that if a task fails (e.g., alone or in a group/chain) I want to be able to use Celery's default retry logic and not have celery execute subsequent chained tasks because it knows an exception was raised. This is much cleaner than what I did with QCEngine where I had checks for `FailedOperation` objects in each BigChem task. This means that if a calculation fails, BigChem will not return `ProgramFailure` objects, but rather will just raise an exception when `future_result.get()` is called. In ChemCloud, I need to construct the `ProgramFailure` object to return to users. This is not possible outside of the `qcop` stack because the exception will not contain the required `input_data` object, nor can I construct the `Provenance` object from the exception data, nor the `traceback` string outside of the context of the exception itself. So I decided in the `BaseAdapter.compute()` method to construct the `ProgramFailure` object even if `raise_exc=True` and then add it to the raised exception at `exc.program_failure`. This way I can choose whether to raise exceptions or not but still capture all information available about a calculation for later debugging. Not having this option in QCEngine was often annoying because I'd prefer to raise exceptions but then I'd be missing critical data for debugging.

## Open Questions

- Consider changing signature of `BaseAdaptor.compute` to `def compute(inp_obj: InputBase, **kwargs)` to make things less redundant across adaptors. Loose some clarity, save a bunch of redundancy in specifying a signature over and over again. This caused issues.

## Publishing Checklist

- Update `CHANGELOG.md`
- Bump version in `pyproject.toml`
- Tag commit with a version and GitHub Actions will publish it to pypi if tag is on `master` branch.
- `git push`
- `git push --tags`

Commit message:

Moved self.validate_input(...), self.program_version(...) and self.collect_wfn() calls inside the try/except block of adapter.compute(...) method. This allows us to catch any exceptions raised by these methods and return a proper exception.program_failure object for any qcop exceptions raised in .compute(). Fixed terachem_adapter.validate_input(...) so that it raises an AdapterInputError if qcparse reports an issue. Redefined the signature for adapter.collect_wfn() so that it can run without an output objects being created yet so it could be moved inside the .compute() try/except block.

docs/dev-decisions.md, after:

# Dev Decisions and Research

## Exception Handing

- When using BigChem I want to always call `compute(..., raise_exc=True)` so that if a task fails (e.g., alone or in a group/chain) I want to be able to use Celery's default retry logic and not have celery execute subsequent chained tasks because it knows an exception was raised. This is much cleaner than what I did with QCEngine where I had checks for `FailedOperation` objects in each BigChem task. This means that if a calculation fails, BigChem will not return `ProgramFailure` objects, but rather will just raise an exception when `future_result.get()` is called. In ChemCloud, I need to construct the `ProgramFailure` object to return to users. This is not possible outside of the `qcop` stack because the exception will not contain the required `input_data` object, nor can I construct the `Provenance` object from the exception data because I am missing the `program` name, I could construct the `traceback` string from the exception itself (raised by `bigchem`). So I decided in the `BaseAdapter.compute()` method to construct the `ProgramFailure` object even if `raise_exc=True` and then add it to the raised exception at `exc.program_failure`. This way I can choose whether to raise exceptions or not but still capture all information available about a calculation for later debugging. Not having this option in QCEngine was often annoying because I'd prefer to raise exceptions but then I'd be missing critical data for debugging.

## Open Questions

- Consider changing signature of `BaseAdaptor.compute` to `def compute(inp_obj: InputBase, **kwargs)` to make things less redundant across adaptors. Loose some clarity, save a bunch of redundancy in specifying a signature over and over again. This caused issues.

## Future Work

- Could avoid creating temporary directories for adapters that do not use disk. Could set `AdapterBase.disk = False` and then skip the `with tmpdir(...)` block in `BaseAdapter.compute()`. This would save at most < a few milliseconds per calculation. Not critical. _Might_ be useful for super fast calls like `xtb` or `rdkit` on super small molecules?

## Publishing Checklist

- Update `CHANGELOG.md`
- Bump version in `pyproject.toml`
- Tag commit with a version and GitHub Actions will publish it to pypi if tag is on `master` branch.
- `git push`
- `git push --tags`
